- Legeby, A. (14-01-2022). Lecture _Social Sustainability and Urban Design_. Högskolan i Gävle (Zoom). Natural Resource Management and Resilience Building of Social-Ecological Systems (_Social-Ecological Urban Systems Planning and Design_).
- Equal living conditions - social sustainability
	- pragmatic book: The Just City by Susan S. Fainstein
- Sustainable cities - sustainable planning and design
	- SDGs 10 and 11
	- Basic condition for a sustainable community or city is an equal distribution of resources, both from an economic, social, and political perspective.
	- The global sustainablility goal Leave No One behind and Reduced Inequalities.
	- Today more than half of the population is living in urban environments. The share is expected to increase to 70 percent in 2050.
	- ...
- Urban segregation beyond housing segregation
- Segregation: define 'area' and define 'category'
- Access to a diverse urban life is affecting living conditions and life chances.
	- What is the role of urban form in relation to urban life?
- Why share public space?
	- Negotiating norms and attitudes.
	- "I also see public culture as sociall constructed on the micro-level. It is produced by the many social encounters that make up daily life in the streets, shops, and parks - the spaces in which we ..
- City life - live among friends and strangers
	- "As an alternative to the ideal of community, I propose an ideal of city life as a vision of social relations affirming group difference. As
- Public spaces may provide the settings for the learning of cosmopolitanism.
	- "The public real is, in fact, probabaly the locus for si
- Sharing public space: co-presence
	- be seen and see others
	- negotiate public culture
	- unwritten rules of society
	- formal and informal control
	- conflict-negotiation
	- trust
	- weak ties - strong ties
	- contextual effects
	- bridging - bonding
- primary relations and secondary relations (outdated concept)
- Does the city support
	- secondary and/or primary relations
		- ...
- Affordances (architectural theory): provides opportunites
	- Gibson 1979: "The affordances of the environment are what it offers the animal, what it provides or furnishes, either for good or ill."
	- Julienne Hanson 2000: 117: "The disabling effects of the urban transformation had the greatest impact on the weakest an least powerful
	- The theory of space-society relationship.
- Public space is an arena for exchange and interaction. It distributes access to resources.